README.md, before:

# 🔗 makesite

[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/RyanKeys/makesite)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/RyanKeys/makesite)

_Create your own custom Static Site Generator (like [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) or [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/)) by cloning and fulfilling the requirements in this repo!_

### 📚 Table of Contents

1. [Project Structure](#project-structure)
2. [Getting Started](#getting-started)
3. [Deliverables](#deliverables)
4. [Resources](#resources)

## Project Structure

```bash
📂 makesite
├── README.md
├── first-post.txt
├── latest-post.txt
├── makesite.go
└── template.tmpl
```

## Getting Started

1. Visit [github.com/new](https://github.com/new) and create a new repository named `makesite`.
2. Run each command line-by-line in your terminal to set up the project:

```bash
$ cd ~/go/src
$ git clone git@github.com:Make-School-Labs/makesite.git
$ cd makesite
$ git remote rm origin
$ git remote add origin git@github.com:YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME/makesite.git
```

## Deliverables

**For each task**:

- Complete each task in the order they appear.
- Use [GitHub Task List](https://help.github.com/en/github/managing-your-work-on-github/about-task-lists) syntax to update the task list.

### MVP

Complete the MVP as If you finish early, move on to the stretch challenges.

If you get stuck on any step, be sure to print the output to `stdout`!

#### v1.0 Requirements

- [x] Edit line `4` of `README.md`. Change this line to the following, replacing `YOUR_USERNAME` and `YOUR_REPONAME` with your GitHub username and repository name respectively.
- [x] Read in the contents of the provided `first-post.txt` file.
- [x] Edit the provided HTML template (`template.tmpl`) to display the contents of `first-post.txt`.
- [x] Render the contents of `first-post.txt` using Go Templates and print it to stdout.
- [x] Write the HTML template to the filesystem to a file. Name it `first-post.html`.
- [x] Manually test the generated HTML page by running `/.makesite`. Double-click the `first-post.html` file that appears in your directory after running the command to open the generated page in your browser.
- [x] **Add, commit, and push to GitHub**.
- [x] Add a new flag to your command named `file`. This flag represents the name of any `.txt` file in the same directory as your program. Run `./makesite --file=latest-post.txt` to test.
- [x] Update the `save` function to use the input filename to generate a new HTML file. For example, if the input file is named `latest-post.txt`, the generated HTML file should be named `latest-post.html`.
- [x] **Add, commit, and push to GitHub**.

#### v1.0 Stretch Challenges

- [x] Use Bootstrap, or another CSS framework, to enhance the style and readability of your template. _Get creative! Writing your very own website generator is a great opportunity to broadcast your style, personality, and development preferences to the world!_

### v1.1

#### v1.1 Requirements

- [x] Create 3 new `.txt` files for testing in the same directory as your project.
- [x] Add a new flag to the `makesite` command named `dir`.
- [x] Use the flag to find all `.txt` files in the given directory. Print them to `stdout`.
- [x] With the list of `.txt` files you found, generate an HTML page for each.
- [x] Run `./makesite --dir=.` to test in your local directory.
- [x] **Add, commit, and push to GitHub**.

#### v1.1 Stretch Challenges

- [ ] Recursively find all `.txt` files in the given directory, as well as it's subdirectories. Print them to `stdout` to make sure. Generate an HTML page for each.
- [ ] When your program finishes, print: `Success! Generated 5 pages.` The `Success!` substring must be <span style="color: green; font-weight:bold;">bold green</span>, and the count (`5`) must be **bold**.
- [ ] Modify the success message to read: `Success! Generated 5 pages (18.2kB total).` Calculate the total by summing the size of each HTML file, then converting the total to kilobytes. Always return one significant digit after the decimal point.
- [ ] Determine how long it took to execute your static site generator. Modify the success message to read: `Success! Generated 5 pages (18.2kB total) in 3.25 seconds.` Always return two significant digits after the decimal point.
- [ ] Test your solutions to these stretch challenges on many different directories containing `.txt` files. Are there any ways to make your code faster?

### v1.2

#### v1.2 Requirements

- [ ] Initialize Go modules in your project.
- [ ] Add any third party library to your project to enhance it's functionality. Some ideas you might consider include **_(CHOOSE ONLY ONE)_**:
  - [ ] Translating page content using Google Translate.
  - [ ] Parse Markdown (`.md`) files and transform them into HTML. `#` through `######` should translate to `<h1>` through `<h6>` elements.
  - [ ] **_FILL IN THE BLANK_**: `I will use the __________________________________ library. The documentation is located at __________________________________. My goal is to use it to __________________________________.`
- [ ] **Add, commit, and push to GitHub**.

## Resources

### Lesson Plans

- [**BEW 2.5**: Project #1 - SSGs](https://make-school-courses.github.io/BEW-2.5-Strongly-Typed-Ecosystems/#/Lessons/SSGProject): Code samples you can use to complete the MVP requirements.
- [**BEW 2.5**: Files & Directories](https://make-school-courses.github.io/BEW-2.5-Strongly-Typed-Ecosystems/#/Lessons/FilesDirectories): Code samples you can use to complete v1.1 requirements.
- [**BEW 2.5**: Files & Directories](https://make-school-courses.github.io/BEW-2.5-Strongly-Typed-Ecosystems/#/Lessons/3rdPartyLibs): Code samples you can use to complete v1.2 requirements.

### Example Code

- [**Go By Example**: Reading Files](https://gobyexample.com/reading-files)
- [**Go By Example**: Writing Files](https://gobyexample.com/writing-files)
- [**Go By Example**: Panic](https://gobyexample.com/panic)
- [**GopherAcademy**: Using Go Templates](https://blog.gopheracademy.com/advent-2017/using-go-templates/)
- [**rapid7.com**: Building a Simple CLI Tool with Golang](https://blog.rapid7.com/2016/08/04/build-a-simple-cli-tool-with-golang/)

Commit message:

enabled google text to speech.

README.md, after:

# 🔗 makesite

[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/RyanKeys/makesite)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/RyanKeys/makesite)

_Create your own custom Static Site Generator (like [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) or [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/)) by cloning and fulfilling the requirements in this repo!_

### 📚 Table of Contents

1. [Project Structure](#project-structure)
2. [Getting Started](#getting-started)
3. [Deliverables](#deliverables)
4. [Resources](#resources)

## Project Structure

```bash
📂 makesite
├── README.md
├── first-post.txt
├── latest-post.txt
├── makesite.go
└── template.tmpl
```

## Getting Started

1. Visit [github.com/new](https://github.com/new) and create a new repository named `makesite`.
2. Run each command line-by-line in your terminal to set up the project:

```bash
$ cd ~/go/src
$ git clone git@github.com:Make-School-Labs/makesite.git
$ cd makesite
$ git remote rm origin
$ git remote add origin git@github.com:YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME/makesite.git
```

## Deliverables

**For each task**:

- Complete each task in the order they appear.
- Use [GitHub Task List](https://help.github.com/en/github/managing-your-work-on-github/about-task-lists) syntax to update the task list.

### MVP

Complete the MVP as If you finish early, move on to the stretch challenges.

If you get stuck on any step, be sure to print the output to `stdout`!

#### v1.0 Requirements

- [x] Edit line `4` of `README.md`. Change this line to the following, replacing `YOUR_USERNAME` and `YOUR_REPONAME` with your GitHub username and repository name respectively.
- [x] Read in the contents of the provided `first-post.txt` file.
- [x] Edit the provided HTML template (`template.tmpl`) to display the contents of `first-post.txt`.
- [x] Render the contents of `first-post.txt` using Go Templates and print it to stdout.
- [x] Write the HTML template to the filesystem to a file. Name it `first-post.html`.
- [x] Manually test the generated HTML page by running `/.makesite`. Double-click the `first-post.html` file that appears in your directory after running the command to open the generated page in your browser.
- [x] **Add, commit, and push to GitHub**.
- [x] Add a new flag to your command named `file`. This flag represents the name of any `.txt` file in the same directory as your program. Run `./makesite --file=latest-post.txt` to test.
- [x] Update the `save` function to use the input filename to generate a new HTML file. For example, if the input file is named `latest-post.txt`, the generated HTML file should be named `latest-post.html`.
- [x] **Add, commit, and push to GitHub**.

#### v1.0 Stretch Challenges

- [x] Use Bootstrap, or another CSS framework, to enhance the style and readability of your template. _Get creative! Writing your very own website generator is a great opportunity to broadcast your style, personality, and development preferences to the world!_

### v1.1

#### v1.1 Requirements

- [x] Create 3 new `.txt` files for testing in the same directory as your project.
- [x] Add a new flag to the `makesite` command named `dir`.
- [x] Use the flag to find all `.txt` files in the given directory. Print them to `stdout`.
- [x] With the list of `.txt` files you found, generate an HTML page for each.
- [x] Run `./makesite --dir=.` to test in your local directory.
- [x] **Add, commit, and push to GitHub**.

#### v1.1 Stretch Challenges

- [ ] Recursively find all `.txt` files in the given directory, as well as it's subdirectories. Print them to `stdout` to make sure. Generate an HTML page for each.
- [ ] When your program finishes, print: `Success! Generated 5 pages.` The `Success!` substring must be <span style="color: green; font-weight:bold;">bold green</span>, and the count (`5`) must be **bold**.
- [ ] Modify the success message to read: `Success! Generated 5 pages (18.2kB total).` Calculate the total by summing the size of each HTML file, then converting the total to kilobytes. Always return one significant digit after the decimal point.
- [ ] Determine how long it took to execute your static site generator. Modify the success message to read: `Success! Generated 5 pages (18.2kB total) in 3.25 seconds.` Always return two significant digits after the decimal point.
- [ ] Test your solutions to these stretch challenges on many different directories containing `.txt` files. Are there any ways to make your code faster?

### v1.2

#### v1.2 Requirements

- [x] Initialize Go modules in your project.
- [x] Add any third party library to your project to enhance it's functionality. Some ideas you 
- [x] **_FILL IN THE BLANK_**: `I will use the Google Text to Speech library. The documentation is located at https://cloud.google.com/speech-to-text/docs/sync-recognize. My goal is to use it to convert text files into mp3 files.`
- [x] **Add, commit, and push to GitHub**.

## Resources

### Lesson Plans

- [**BEW 2.5**: Project #1 - SSGs](https://make-school-courses.github.io/BEW-2.5-Strongly-Typed-Ecosystems/#/Lessons/SSGProject): Code samples you can use to complete the MVP requirements.
- [**BEW 2.5**: Files & Directories](https://make-school-courses.github.io/BEW-2.5-Strongly-Typed-Ecosystems/#/Lessons/FilesDirectories): Code samples you can use to complete v1.1 requirements.
- [**BEW 2.5**: Files & Directories](https://make-school-courses.github.io/BEW-2.5-Strongly-Typed-Ecosystems/#/Lessons/3rdPartyLibs): Code samples you can use to complete v1.2 requirements.

### Example Code

- [**Go By Example**: Reading Files](https://gobyexample.com/reading-files)
- [**Go By Example**: Writing Files](https://gobyexample.com/writing-files)
- [**Go By Example**: Panic](https://gobyexample.com/panic)
- [**GopherAcademy**: Using Go Templates](https://blog.gopheracademy.com/advent-2017/using-go-templates/)
- [**rapid7.com**: Building a Simple CLI Tool with Golang](https://blog.rapid7.com/2016/08/04/build-a-simple-cli-tool-with-golang/)
